In MySQL, a Storage Engine is the underlying software component that the database uses to handle the actual SQL operations (storing, retrieving, and updating data) on the physical disk.

Unlike other databases, MySQL allows you to choose different engines for different tables within the same database!

The Big Two: InnoDB vs. MyISAM
InnoDB is the modern, "all-purpose" storage engine and has been the default for MySQL since version 5.5. Its primary strength lies in Data Integrity and Concurrency. It is a transactional engine, meaning it supports features like COMMIT and ROLLBACK, which ensure that a series of database operations either all succeed or all fail together—this is vital for systems like banking or e-commerce. Furthermore, InnoDB uses Row-Level Locking; when one user is updating a specific row, other users can still edit different rows in the same table simultaneously. It also strictly enforces Foreign Key constraints, making it the go-to choice for complex, relational data where accuracy is non-negotiable.

MyISAM, on the other hand, is the "legacy" engine that was the MySQL default for many years. It is a non-transactional engine, making it simpler and sometimes faster for read-heavy workloads (like a simple blog or a data warehouse) where data is rarely updated. However, its biggest drawback is Table-Level Locking. If a user is writing a single piece of data to a MyISAM table, the entire table is locked and inaccessible to other writers until that operation finishes. It also lacks support for Foreign Keys and does not have a built-in crash recovery log, meaning a sudden power loss can easily lead to corrupted data files. Today, MyISAM is mostly used for specialized cases where high-speed searching and low disk space are more important than data safety.'

--------------------------------------------------

SHOW TABLE STATUS LIKE 'your_table_name';

CREATE TABLE log_data (
    id INT PRIMARY KEY,
    entry_text TEXT
) ENGINE = MyISAM;

ALTER TABLE my_old_table ENGINE = InnoDB;

